Keep on walking into the fire.
Keep on walking into the flame.
Keep on walking into the prisons.
Keep on walking into the swords.
It's the only way it's going to get done.
Paul did it.
Walked into the synagogues.
Walked into the prisons.
Walked into the persecution over and over.
Because therein will two things happen.
Christ will be magnified because He will be seen in your game.
If someone asked you, what would it take to make suffering worth it?
How would you answer?
Piper's answer is one word, Christ.
I'm Dan Kruver.
In this episode of Light and Truth, John Piper takes us into the Apostle Paul's mindset to show how joy in Jesus gives suffering eternal meaning.
This message was originally delivered in Wheaton, Illinois at the Act III Reformation Conference on October 30th,
1999.
Philippians chapter 1, this text is right at the center of my thinking in these recent months and years because it has become the centerpiece of my quest for joy in God and the honor of God.
Let's start maybe at verse 19.
of chapter 1.
I know that this will turn out for my deliverance or my salvation, this imprisonment of mine, through your prayers and through the provision of the Spirit of Jesus Christ.
According to my earnest expectation and hope that I will not be put to shame in anything but that with all boldness, Christ
We'll even now, as always, be exalted in my body.
Okay, now there's his goal.
Is that your goal?
I hope it's your goal.
It's the goal of this conference, the excellency of God.
We want this conference to be the exaltation of Christ's excellency.
And so Paul says, my passion is that with all boldness Christ might be exalted in my body, might be magnified in my body.
His excellency might be seen in my body
Whether I live or whether I die, whether by life or whether by death.
Now here's my question to you.
Do you know how Christ gets glory in your dying?
That's what he's talking about here.
My goal is that Christ be magnified when I'm alive and He be magnified the day I die.
Now how does that come about?
Isn't that what you want to know?
Don't you want to know how to die so that Christ is made magnificent in your dying?
Don't you want to know that?
Aren't you glad he wrote these verses?
Because the next verse he's going to tell you how.
So let's read it.
Verse 21, 4, here's the explanation and ground for the quest of God's exaltation in the body of Paul when he dies and lives.
4,
to me to live that corresponds with life in verse 21.
To live is Christ and to die that corresponds with death in verse 20 is gain.
Now let's just take the death app.
We'll leave the life half for another conference at another time.
Just the death half.
My goal, he says, is that Christ would be exalted in my body
The excellency would be magnified.
God would be glorified.
The love of Christ that we heard about from Tom, the power of sovereign God building his church that we heard about from David.
You want those two things to be magnified in your death.
How does it happen?
By experiencing death as gain.
Long for Christ to be exalted in my body by death, for to me to die is gay.
Now, let's just think about that for a minute.
How does that work?
My whole theology of Christian hedonism is built on that connection between verses 20 and 21.
My goal in life is two things.
to glorify God and to get gain.
That's all I want.
Total gain, total God.
That's my life.
That's my ministry.
That's my passion.
I didn't make this up.
I want Christ to be magnified in my body, alive and dead.
And I want gain.
Now, how is it that Christ gets magnified in my dying if I experience my dying as gain?
How does that work?
Answer verse 23.
I'm hard pressed from both directions, having the desire to depart and be with Christ.
For that is very much better.
What's the game?
Christ is the game.
To die, Paul says, is to be more intimately with Christ than we have it here.
Tom made a beautiful case of the intimacy we can enjoy here.
It's going to get better.
It's going to be 10,000 times better.
Paul knows this.
To be apart from the body is to be at home with the Lord.
It's gain.
But the gain is not golf courses or bigger cars or health or Ruth Piper, my mother.
Yes, I see her again after 25 years.
That's not the gain.
Acceptance so far as those things that may reflect some element of the glory of my Christ.
Christ is the gain.
Now put it together.
We got the pieces.
Let's weave it together.
This is theology now.
And this is life.
Christ is glorified in your dying.
When you experience dying as gain because Christ is more valuable than everything you lose in dying.
and you lose everything in dying except Christ.
I'll put it another way.
Can you list all the pleasures of your life, health, wife, home, job, food, sleep, leisure?
Can you list them all and then put Christ in another column
then put a big X through the first column, totally up at the bottom, have only Christ and say, Gay.
If you can't, you will not magnify Him in your dying.
You magnify Him in your dying when you look just right in the face
Life is going to be gone.
Children are going to be gone.
Grandchildren are going to be gone.
The sex is going to be gone.
Eating is going to be gone.
Beautiful sunrises are going to be gone.
It's all going to be gone.
And what I get is Christ.
And say, Yes!
Yes!
Game!
And when you do that, you magnify Christ.
See, I've got little nifty rhyming ways of saying this.
God is most glorified in you when you are most satisfied in Him.
That didn't just get made up, folks.
That's this text.
Do you count Christ as more satisfying than all else?
If you do, Paul says, you magnify Him in death.
Another one is, Prizing Christ is the key to praising.
Christ.
Prizing him.
Prizing him as treasure.
Prizing him as precious.
Prizing him as gain is how you praise him and magnify him.
Do you see why I'm a Christian?
He missed.
If you forsake the quest of your full and lasting pleasure in Christ, you diss honor Christ.
This is the text.
This is what it says.
We magnify Him in our dying by counting it as gain.
And I wish we had time, but I won't get to the world global dimension of this if I take you out of chapter three and show you how to live as Christ also means counting Him as gain above everything in this life right now.
But you can hear enough now to do it yourself.
Let's go to one other text.
The point of that text was, if you this morning share my passion to exalt the sovereignty of God, exalt the love of God, magnify the excellency of God, then resolve to suffer and to die and to count it gain.
Suffering too, we rejoice in our tribulations.
Knowing the tribulation works patience and patience approving this and approving this hope in Christ.
I added in Christ because verse two, that was verse three and four, verse two of Romans five says, we exalt in the hope of a glory of God.
That's the hope and then the hope is the effect of suffering.
So if you're exalting in the hope of the glory of God in verse two of Romans five,
And tribulation leading to patience leading to approval and is leading to hope leads to the glory of God.
And that's the magnification of God again.
Suffering is absolutely key.
Tribulations are absolutely key.
Let's go to Colossians chapter 1.
Colossians 1.
Now we've got to get world missions in here.
I'm just stirring in everywhere I can whether the conference is valid or not.
because it's on God's heart.
And if you love what we have here in this church, in this book, in this theology, in this fellowship, in this worship, how can you not want it for Jordan, Eritrea, Tibet, and Senegal?
Why did I say those four?
Because you all ought to be praying through the 1040 window in October.
Those who are praying through the 1040 window in October for the fourth time in four years in a row are praying today with Jordan, Eritrea, Tibet, and Senegal, all of whom restrictive angelism big time.
that God would blow the bars off the door, that we would pray, 2 Thessalonians 3-1, I pray that the Word of God would run and triumph in the 1040 window, where 90% of the unmeventilized people in the world live.
Colossians chapter 1 verse 24.
Now I rejoice in my sufferings.
Do you?
We're murmuring people.
We haven't gotten much beyond wilderness.
Murmur, murmur, murmur.
Now are you rejoicing my sufferings for your sake?
For your sake?
And in my flesh, I do my share.
on behalf of His body, which is the church, in filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions, filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions.
That's almost heresy, but not quite.
Some of the greatest truths brush with heresy.
What does he mean that he fills up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions as he suffers for the body of Christ and to build the body of Christ and to gather the body of Christ?
Now bear all things for the sake of the elect you said in the past doors.
What does he mean, I fill up what is lacking?
Well, he doesn't mean that I improve the value of the atonement, that I increase the merits of Jesus.
I could somehow add something to the atoning worth of the cross.
It doesn't mean that.
What he means is when Christ died and was afflicted, he did it for his people.
To bring them to himself from all the peoples of the world, every pun, thou was ransomed and by thy blood,
Has purchased men, redeemed men, ransomed men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation has made the McKingham priests to our God, Revelation 5 and 9.
He died to ransom a people from every tribe and tongue and people and nation.
Now those people out there don't know this.
They haven't seen it.
They haven't tasted it.
They know nothing about the doctrine of justification by faith.
The perfect righteousness wrought out by Jesus in his life.
They know nothing about a substitutionary death.
They know nothing about a resurrection, triumph over hell and death and all the demons they're so afraid of.
They know nothing about free grace that's so different from Allah and Islam and all the 700 million gods of Hinduism.
They don't know the glory of God in the face of Christ and the gospel.
They don't know these things and Christ died for millions of them.
And Paul says, I'm going to complete that.
I'm going to complete that with my sufferings.
What was lacking?
Well, what was lacking?
What was lacking was a personal presentation to those for whom he died of his sufferings.
A personal presentation
to those for whom he died of his sufferings.
I want to show you why I believe that's what it means.
In Philippians chapter 2, Epaphroditus has just come from Philippi to Paul.
He's risked his life in order to bless Paul with the gift that they're sending.
And Paul writes back to them to tell them they should honor such men.
And he says, verse 30 of Philippians 2, because he came close to death for the work of Christ, risking his life to complete, it's the same word.
Fill up, fill up what is deficient, what is lacking.
You see these two words?
This is remarkable.
To fill up what is lacking in your service to me.
Well, what was lacking?
All the money was in the bag.
They had made the whole sacrifice.
Nothing more was to be given.
It was in the bag.
It was under Epaphroditus's arm.
What was lacking?
What did he finish?
He finished getting it from Philippa to Rome.
That's all that was lacking.
Getting it from Philippa to Rome.
Getting the love of the Philippians into the face of the Apostle Paul with the gift.
That's all that was lacking.
That's what this verse means.
Colossians 1, 24.
I want to fill up what is lacking in the sufferings of Christ.
I want to get it from Calvary to Tibet.
I want to get it from Calvary to Spain.
I'm going to Spain, Romans.
Help me.
I write a whole theology if you'll just help me get there.
because I'm going to preach the gospel where it's never been preached and the name of Christ has never been named because I love the glory of my King Jesus and I can't bear the thought of a whole people dishonoring Him by their negligence and by their ignorance and by their idolatry.
I'm going to Spain.
And it's going to cost me my life.
And then don't miss this word at the beginning of verse 24.
And it makes me glad so to suffer.
So I close with these two words, suffering in joy, suffering in joy, suffering in joy.
How is he going to complete the sufferings of Jesus in his sufferings?
I bury in my body the marks of Jesus.
He said, I die every day.
He says.
Let no one talk of me anymore.
I carry the marks of Jesus.
And those are the marks of the apostle that seal his authority.
And they show him to be real and Christ to be real in and through him.
How am I going to finish the great commission with bloody feet?
went to a chapel one time at Trinity seminary when I was on a little leave down there hiding away.
And Oswald Sanders was still alive.
Great statesman, the missionary cause told a story about an Indian evangelist who loved Jesus, no education, just rudimentary
exposure to the gospel, but it was enough to make him experience what Tom Smith said.
We all need to experience.
And he just loved Christ and wanted to go to all the villages where he grew up and all the villages where he had known people.
And he was going to the one by one, tramping over the hills and walking into the towns, getting the people together, telling the gospel.
And he got to one town late in the afternoon, exhausted, tired, and he went into the square, got the people together and told them,
the gospel, and they drove him out of town with indignation.
And he was so tired and so discouraged that he just lay down under tree, Oswald Sanders said, and fell asleep.
And at dusk, he startled awake, and the whole town seemed to be over.
The big men of the village were looking down on him.
He thought they were going to hurt him.
And they said, we would like you to tell us the gospel again.
And he was puzzled and said, we came out to see what happened to you.
And when we saw your bloody feet that had evidently been something you were willing to endure to get to us with this message, we thought we should hear you.
You're a holding man problem.
You should listen.
That's the way it's going to be done.
That's the way the Great Commission is going to be done, which is why we live in a generation with the stock market going up and the threshold going down, makes me tremble that America's going to be passed over in this cause, and it may well be over for us.
It is, it is.
I don't believe in any necessary revival in America.
Maybe, maybe not.
I hope so.
I want to be a part of that cause.
I tell you, I want to be a part of that cause.
And I want Bethlehem Baptist Church to be a part of that cause.
And I'm torturing the glacier of lukewarmness everywhere I can so that we can be a part of the cause.
But there's no guarantee that you or this church would be a part of the cause because our threshold of suffering is going down, as our prosperity is going up, and the great commission is only going to be finished by suffering, by martyrs, good old
George Verwerb, bless his heart, has trampled a globe these days, preaching 200,000 new troops from young people to penetrate the final frontiers.
And I say, do it, George.
Do it.
200,000.
And tell them this, the first 20,000 will be decimated by the machine guns.
Could be a different.
I want to raise up, raise up old
God, 200,000 young people.
Have you ever thought about warfare in the Bible times?
Did you go see Braveheart?
I wouldn't go back to Braveheart because of the nudity in it.
Why are they ruling good movies with nudity?
Just hurts me to death.
But I saw it.
My son got me to see it.
And he, he, I said, how many times you seen this?
Oh, five.
I said, Benjamin.
He said, I know where to turn it off.
Well, the point is this, biblical warfare was a lot like that.
Here come these horses, Galpin, 30 miles an hour.
Here come these people with spears and swords.
You know what happens in the first 20 minutes of battle?
You lose 60,000 people.
Nobody wins.
60,000 will go down.
Read the statistics of the battles in the Old Testament.
Those 20,000 were lost that day.
That's 20,000 widows and 80,000 orphans in one day.
That's typical warfare.
Why should it be any different today?
Tell me.
At the spiritual level where we sin
our 200,000 young people, and I hope finishers who are over 50, and I hope retirement people who ought to be doing that instead of golfing in Arizona, go with the forces.
The first 20,000 are going down.
And if we are surprised at the fiery ordeal, the other 60,000 or 180,000 are coming home, no!
Keep on walking into the fire.
Keep on walking into the flame.
Keep on walking into the prisons.
Keep on walking into the swords.
It's the only way it's going to get done.
Paul did it.
Walked into the synagogues.
Walked into the prisons.
Walked into the persecution over and over again.
Because therein will two things happen.
Christ will be magnified because He will be seen to be your gain.
You walk into that situation.
What about people going to explain your life?
You want a nice house in the suburbs?
Want to get a good job?
Want to get a good wife?
Want to have lots of kids?
Want to get old?
Want to have grandchildren?
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Where is Christianity?
That's just American dream.
Take up your cross and follow me.
And it leads directly to Calvary.
Let us go with him outside the camp.
For here we have no lasting city and let us bear the reproach with him.
The great commission won't be filled any other way.
Pastors, would you please go back to your churches and begin to breed crazy people.
Breed crazy people.
Don't be like the pastor.
I really am done here.
I know my time is done.
Don't be like the pastor.
Now into one seminar.
And I had once a high regard for this man, still do kind of, but.
He said, well, when I first came here, I saw everybody had two houses, house on the lake, house home, two cars, everything.
And they'd go away.
And I tried for a while to preach wartime lifestyle and simplicity and radical Christianity.
And finally, I said, you can't beat him.
I almost walked down.
My heart absolutely sucked.
Brothers, I'm clean.
Don't join him!
Thank you for listening to this episode of Light and Truth, where we are committed to providing God-centered preaching to help you see Christ clearly and treasure Him truly.
I'm your host, Dan Kruver.
In our next episode, John Piper begins a two-part series titled
the doctor's prescription for joy.
I hope you'll join us.
For more resources, visit desiringgod.org.